---
title: 如何有效的组织配置文件
date: 2017-03-29 12:04:15
tags:
- config
- git
- version-control
---
A:在家目录下，有很多隐藏文件，散布分布的。其中一些是非常重要的配置文件，通常我们需要对这些文件作备份和版本控制。怎样才能做到呢？

A:In the home directory, there are a lot of hidden files, scattered distribution. Some of them are very important configuration files, and we usually need to make backup and version control for these files. How can we do that? 

#How to effectively organize/manage your personal profile.

Due to git can not handle symlinks, I've always organized my profiles like this:

softlink files/directories in ~||source files/directories in git repo
--|--|--
~/.local/share/applications|->|$git/config/.local+share+applications
~/.local/share/nautilus/scripts|->|$git/config/.local+share+nautilus+scripts
~/.vimrc|->|$git/config/.vimrc
~/.proxy.pac|->|$git/config/.proxy.pac
~/.bash_aliases|->|$git/config/.bash_aliases
~/.icons|->|$git/config/.icons/
~/.vim|->|$git/config/.vim
~/.gitconfig|->|$git/config/.gitconfig

##Step:

1. Move all important personal config files in your /home/xxx to `$git/config`;
1. Make softlink from config directory to ~ directory, using a script named 'link-all-hidden-files-to-home.bash', This script is also in the same directory `$git/config`;
1. Do git commit and push in git repository;

##Benefit:

1. All of your configuration at a glance.
1. When you need to edit, it is convenient.
1. Can use git for version control.
1. Synchronize between different machines.

##`link-all-hidden-files-to-home.bash`:

> it will replace all '+' in filename to '/'. eg, file ".local+share+applications" would be extended as ".local/share/applications":

```
#!/bin/bash

cd "$(dirname "$0")"
d=`pwd`
for i in `ls -A|grep '^\.'`; do
l=`echo $i|sed 's/+/\//g'`
cmd="ln -sf $d/$i ~/$l"
echo $cmd
eval $cmd
done
find . -maxdepth 2 -type l -exec rm {} \;
```

##You can find out all those symlinks like this:
```
find ~ -type l ! -path $some-dir-need-exculde -lname $git/config -printf "%p  \t->\t%l\n"
```
